Cluster Panic due to Performance Problems | Confluence | Atlassian Documentation
Products
Confluence Support
Get started
Documentation
Knowledge base
Resources
Search
Log in
View account
View requests
Log out
...
Get started
Knowledge base
Products
Jira Software
Project and issue tracking
Jira Service Management
Service management and customer support
Jira Work Management
Manage any business project
Confluence
Document collaboration
Bitbucket
Git code management
See all
Resources
Documentation
Usage and admin help
Community
Answers, support, and inspiration
System Status
Cloud services health
Suggestions and bugs
Feature suggestions and bug reports
Marketplace
Product apps
Billing and licensing
Frequently asked questions
Log out
Log in to account
Contact support
Training & Certification
Cloud Migration Center
GDPR guides
Enterprise services
Atlassian partners
Developers
User groups
Automation for Jira
Atlassian.com
Page
View in Confluence
Edit Page
Viewport
Manage Viewport
Confluence
Dashboard
Space Directory
People Directory
Atlassian Support
Confluence Knowledge Base
Crashes and Performance Troubleshooting
Cluster Panic due to Performance Problems
Cluster Panic due to Performance Problems
Related content
No related content found
Still need help?
The Atlassian Community is here for you.
Ask the community
This article requires fixes
This article has been Flagged for fixing. Use caution when using it and fix it if you have Publisher rights.
Symptoms
There are multiple causes for this issue. Start with the parent article Confluence will not start due to fatal error in Confluence cluster.
Confluence throws the following error on a single-node deployment spontaneously during production usage:
Fatal error in Confluence cluster: Database is being updated by an instance which is not part of the current cluster. You should check network connections between cluster nodes, especially multicast traffic.
CauseThere are several performance problems that can cause this error. They are listed in the order of most likely to least likely:If you are on Confluence 3.0.1 or 3.0.2, you are most likely experiencing a bug. See Cluster panics (Non Clustered Confluence 2.10.4, 3.0.1 and 3.0.2).The database is overloaded or the database connection has been severed.The database is being accessed by another Confluence instance.An out of memory error has occurred.In some conditions, severely poor garbage collection performance can contribute to this.The daily sql dump backup job (in a native tool) is running. This is very unlikely, and should be addressed only as a last resort.Temporary WorkaroundRun Confluence as a single node cluster.ResolutionsThere are multiple resolutions for this problem:Ensure you have the patch from Cluster panics (Non Clustered Confluence 2.10.4, 3.0.1 and 3.0.2).If you have the word 'Deadlock' in your atlassian-confluence.log, see Troubleshooting deadlocks in Confluence.Upgrading or optimizing the database has corrected this in many situations.If you find OutOfMemory in your atlassian-confluence.log, see Fix Out of Memory errors by Increasing Available Memory.Assess poor garbage collection performance. Check Garbage Collector Performance Issues.Only in rare circumstances, and when you can reliably replicate the problem, the workaround is to take the application offline while generating the backup.
Last modified on Oct 16, 2021
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
It wasn't accurate
It wasn't clear
It wasn't relevant
Provide feedback about this article
Related content
No related content found
Powered by Confluence and Scroll Viewport.
Atlassian
Notice at Collection
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Security
©
Atlassian